# Publications Resulting from the CSDMS-2.0 Award

*  Ashton, A.D., Hutton, E.W.H., Kettner, A.J., Xing, F., Kallumadikal, J., Neinhuis, J., Giosan, L., 2013, Progress in Coupling Coastline and Fluvial Dynamics. Computers & Geosciences 53: 21-29
*  Barnhart, K., Anderson, R., Overeem, I., Wobus, C., Clow, G., Urban. F. 2014.  Modeling erosion of ice-rich permafrost bluffs along the Alaskan Beaufort Sea coast. Journal of Geophysical Research Earth Surf., 119, doi:10.1002/2013JF002845.
*  Barnhart, K., Overeem, I., Anderson, R.S. 2014. The effect of changing sea ice on the physical vulnerability of Arctic coasts. The Cryosphere 8, 1777-1799.
*  Brakenridge, G.R., Syvitski, JPM, Overeem, I., Higgins, S. A., Kettner, A.J., Stewart-Moore, J.A., Westerhoff, R., 2013. Global Mapping of Storm Surges and the Assessment of Delta Vulnerability, Natural Hazards. 66: 1295-1312.
*  Brakenridge, GR, Cohen, S, Kettner AJ, De Groeve T, Nghiem, SV, Syvitski, JPM, Fekete BM, 2013, Calibration of satellite measurements of river discharge using a global hydrology model. J Hydrology 475: 123-136.
*  Campbell, K., Overeem, I., Berlin, M., 2013. Taking it to the Streets: the Case for Modeling in the Geosciences Undergraduate Curriculum. Computers & Geosciences. 53: 123-128.
*  Chen, Y., Overeem, I., Kettner, A.J., Gao, S., Syvitski, J.P.M., (2015).  Modeling Flood Dynamics along the Super-elevated Channel Belt of the Yellow River over the Last 3,000 years.  Journal of Geophysical Research.
*  Chen, Y., Syvitski, J.P.M., Gao, S., Overeem, I., Kettner, A.J. 2012.  Socio-economic Impacts on Flooding: a 4000 year History of the Yellow River, China. AMBIO, 41,7: 682-689.
*  Cohen, S., Kettner, A.J., and Syvitski, J.P.M., 2014. Global Suspended Sediment and Water Discharge Dynamics Between 1960-2010: Continental trends and intra-basin sensitivity.  Global and Planetary Change, 115, 44-58.
*  Cohen, S., Kettner AJ, Syvitski, JPM and Fekete BM, 2013, WBMsed: a distributed global-scale daily riverine sediment flux model: Model description and validation. Computers & Geosciences 53: 80-93.
*  De Winter, I., Storms, J., Overeem, I., 2012. Numerical modeling of glacial sediment production and transport during deglaciation. Geomorphology. 167-168: 102-104.
*  Fekete, B. M., Lammers, R. B., and Brakenridge, G. R., 2012, River discharge, in "State of the Climate in 2011", Special Supplement to the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, 93, 7, Chapter 2, p. S28-S29.
*  Foufoula-Georgiou, E., Overeem, I., Saito, Y., et al., 2013. A vision for a coordinated international effort on delta sustainability. IAHS Extended Abstract, Gothenburg, Sweden, July 2013.
*  Gao, J.H., Jia, J., Kettner, A.J., Xing, F., Wang, Y.P., Xu, X.-N., Yang, Y., Zou, X.Q., Gao, S., Qi, S., and Liao, F., 2014. Changes in water and sediment exchange between the Changjiang River and Poyang Lake under natural and anthropogenic conditions, China. Science of the Total Environment, 481, 542-553.
*  Giosan, L., Syvitski, J, Constantinescu, S, Day, J, 2014, Protect the world’s deltas, Nature 516: 31-33.
*  Giosan, L, PD Clift, MG Macklin, DQ Fuller, S Constantinescu, JA Durcan, T Stevens, GAT Duller, AR Tabrez, R Adhikari, K Gangal, A Alizai, F Filip, S Laningham, JPM Syvitski, 2012, Fluvial Landscapes of the Harappan Civilization. PNAS 109(26): E1688-E1694.
*  Giosan, L., Coolen, M.J.L., Kaplan, J.O., Constantinescu, S., Filip, F., Filipova-Marinova, M., Kettner, A.J., and Thom, N., 2012. Early Anthropogenic Transformation of the Danube-Black Sea System.  Scientific reports 2 : 582, DOI: 10.1038/srep00582
*  Higgins, S, Overeem, I, Steckler, MS, Syvitski, JPM, and Akhter, SH 2014, InSAR measurements of compaction and subsidence in the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, Bangladesh. Journal of Geophysical Research – Earth Surface 119: 1768-1781.
*  Higgins, S., Overeem, I., Syvitski, JPM, and Tanaka, A., 2013, Land Subsidence at Aquaculture Facilities in the Yellow River Delta, China, Geophysical Research Letters 40(15), 3898-3902.
*  Hoke, MRT, BM Hynek, G Di Achille, and EWH Hutton. The effects of sediment supply and concentrations on the formation timescale of martian deltas. Icarus, 228: 1–12, 2014.
*  Hudson, B., Overeem, I., McGrath, D., Syvitski, J., Mikkelsen, A., Hasholt, B., 2014. MODIS observed increase in duration and spatial extent of sediment plumes in Greenland fjords.  The Cryosphere. 8, 1161- 1176.
*  Hutton EWH, Syvitski, JPM, Watts, AB, 2013, Isostatic flexure of a finite slope due to sea-level rise and fall.  Computers & Geosciences 53: 58-68.
*  Kettner, AJ and Syvitski, JPM (Eds). 2013, Modeling for Environmental Change.  Computers & Geosciences 53: 1-162.
*  Khan, S.I., Hong, Y, Vergara, H.J., Gourley, J.J., Brakenridge, G. R., De Groeve, T., Flamig, Z.L., Policelli, F., Yong, B., 2012, Microwave satellite data for hydrologic modeling in un-gauged basins.  IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, 9, 663-667.
*  Kundzewicz , Z.W., Iwona Pińskwar, I., and Brakenridge, G. R., 2013: Large floods in Europe,1985–2009, Hydrological Sciences Journal 58:1, 1-7.
*  Laniak, G.F., G. Olchin, J. Goodall, A. Voinov, M. Hill, P. Glynn, G. Whelan, G.  Geller, N. Quinn, M. Blind, S.  Peckham, S. Reaney, N. Gaber, R. Kennedy and A. Hughes (2013) Integrated environmental modeling: A vision and roadmap for the future. Environmental Modeling & Software 39: 3-23.  Matell, N.,Anderson, R.S., Overeem, I., Wobus, C., Urban, F.E., Clow, G.D., 2013. Modeling the subsurface thermal impact of Arctic thaw lakes in a warming climate. Computers & Geosciences, 53: 69-79.
*  Overeem, I., Berlin, M., Syvitski, J.P.M., 2013. Strategies for Integrated Modeling: the Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System Example. Environmental Modeling & Software, 39, 314-321.
*  Peckham, S.D. and Goodall J.L. 2013, Driving plug-and-play models with data from web-services: A demonstration of interoperability between CSDMS and CUAHSI-HIS. Computers & Geosciences 53: 154-161
*  Peckham, S.D., E.W.H. Hutton and Norris B. 2013, A component-based approach to integrated modeling in the geosciences: The Design of CSDMS, Computers & Geosciences 53: 3-12.
*  Pinskwar, I., Kundzewicz, Z. W., Peduzzi, P., Brakenridge, G.R., Stahl, K., Hannaford, J., 2012, Changing floods in Europe. In: Kundzewicz, Z. W. (ed.), “Changes in Flood Risk in Europe”, Special Publication No. 10, IAHS Press, Wallingford, Oxfordshire, UK, p. 83-95.
*  Renaud, F, Syvitski JPM, Sebesvari Z, Werners SE, Kremer H, Kuenzer C, Ramesh R, Jeuken A, Friedrich J.  2013. Tipping from the Holocene to the Anthropocene: how threatened are major world deltas? Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability 5: 644 – 654.
*  Restrepo, J.D., and Kettner, A.J., 2012. Human induced discharge diversion in a tropical delta and its environmental implications: the Patía River, Colombia. Journal of Hydrology, 424-425, 124-142.
*  Rogers, KG, Syvitski, JPM, Overeem, I, Higgins, S, & Gilligan, J, 2013, Farming Practices and Anthropogenic Delta Dynamics, Proceedings of IAHS-IAPSO-IASPEI Assembly, Gothenburg, Sweden, 358:133-142.
*  Skei, J.M., Syvitski, JPM, 2013, Natural flocculation of mineral particles in seawater – influence on mine tailings sea disposal and particle dispersal. Mineralproduksjon 3: A1-A10.
*  Syvitski, JPM 2014. Looking Forward. Nature Climate Change 4: 856-857.  Syvitski, JPM, Cohen, S, Kettner, AJ, Brakenridge, GR, 2014, How Important and Different Are Tropical Rivers? — An Overview. Geomorphology 227: 5-17.
*  Syvitski, JPM, Hutton, EWH, MD Piper, I Overeem, AJ Kettner, SD Peckham, 2014, Plug and Play Component Modeling — The CSDMS2.0 Approach. International Environmental Modelling and Software Society (iEMSs) 7th Intl. Congress on Env. Modelling and Software, San Diego, CA, USA, Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System Annual Report 35 Daniel P. Ames, Nigel W.T. Quinn and Andrea E. Rizzoli (Eds.) http://www.iemss.org/society/index.php/iemss-2014-proceedings
*  Syvitski, JPM, Kettner, A.J., Overeem, I., Giosan, L., Brakenridge, G.R., Hannon, M., and Bilham, R., 2014. Anthropocence metamorphosis of the Indus Delta and lower floodplain.  Anthropocene, 3, 24-35.
*  Syvitski, J.P.M. and Brakenridge, G.R., 2013, Causation and avoidance of catastrophic flooding along the Indus River, Pakistan. GSA Today 23: 4-10.
*  Syvitski, J.P.M., Overeem, I., Brakenridge, R., Hannon, M., 2012. Floods, floodplains, delta plains — A satellite imaging approach. Sedimentary Geology 267–268: 1-14.
*  Syvitski, J.P.M., Peckham, S.P., David, O., Goodall, J.L., Delucca, C., Theurich, G., 2013, Cyberinfrastructure and Community Environmental Modeling. In: Handbook in Environmental Fluid Dynamics, Editor: H.J.S. Fernando, CRC Press/Taylor & Francis Group, Chapter 28: 399-410.
*  Syvitski, JPM and Higgins, S., 2012, Swamped. New Scientist 2893: 40-43.
*  Upton, P., Kettner, A.J., Gomez, B., Orpin, A.R., Litchfield, N., and Page, M.J., 2013. Simulating post-LGM riverine fluxes to the coastal zone: The Waipaoa catchment, New Zealand. Computers & Geosciences 53: 48-57.
*  Vanmaercke, M, Kettner, AJ, van den Eeckhaut, M, Poesen, J, Mamaliga, A, Verstraeten, G, Radoane, M, Obreja, F. Upton, P., Syvitski, JPM and Govers, G, 2014. Moderate seismic activity affects contemporary sediment yields. Progress in Physical Geography 38(2): 145-172.
*  Warrick, J. A., Milliman, J. D., Walling, D. E., Wasson, R. J., Syvitski, J.  P. M., & Aalto, R. E. (2014). Earth is (mostly) flat: Apportionment of the flux of continental sediment over millennial time scales: Comment. Geology, 42(1), e316-e316.
*  Waters CN, JPM Syvitski, A Gałuszka, GJ Hancock, J Zalasiewicz, A Cearreta, J Grinevald, C Jeandel, JR McNeill, C Summerhayes and A Barnosky, 2015, Can nuclear weapons fallout mark the beginning of the Anthropocene Epoch? Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, 71(3) 46–57 DOI: 10.1177/0096340215581357
*  Westerhoff, R. S., Kleuskens, M. P. H., Winsemius, H. C., Huizinga, H. J., Brakenridge, G. R., and Bishop, C. 2013.  Automated global water mapping based on wide-swath orbital synthetic-aperture radar. Hydrol. Earth Syst. Sci., 17: 651-663.
*  Zalasiewicz, J, CN Waters, AD Barnosky, A Cearreta, M Edgeworth, EC Ellis, A Gałuszka, PL Gibbard, J Grinevald, I Hajdas, J Ivar do Sul, C Jeandel, R Leinfelder, JR McNeill, C Poirier, A Revkin, D de B Richter, W Steffen, C Summerhayes, JPM Syvitski, D Vidas, M Wagreich, M Williams and AP Wolfe, 2015, Colonization of the Americas, ‘Little Ice Age’ climate, and bomb produced carbon: Their role in defining the Anthropocene, The Anthropocene Review 2(2) 117–127. DOI: 10.1177/2053019615587056
*  Zalasiewicz,J, CN Waters, M Williams, AD Barnosky, A Cearreta, P Crutzen, E Ellis, MA Ellis, IJ Fairchild, J Grinevald, PK Haff, I Hajdas, R Leinfelder, J McNeill, C Poirier, D Richter, W Steffen, C Summerhayes, JPM Syvitski, D Vidas, M Wagreich, SL Wing, AP Wolfe and A Zhisheng , 2014. When did the Anthropocene begin? A mid-twentieth century boundary level is stratigraphically optimal.  Quaternary International http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.quaint.2014.11.045
